Time for another exercise, this time about styles and classes.
We learned about them in the last lectures,
now it's time to really work on them yourselves so that you get comfortable using them.
Here's the setup I'm using,
I prepared some styles on the right here,
this affected div which is this div here which basically is a div or a block with a black border
and then a highlight and a shrink class.
We'll need these classes for the very first exercise where I want to start the effect by clicking the
start effect button and what should the effect be?
I want to alternate between highlight and shrink classes on this div and we can alternate by using
the set interval function,
it works kind of as set timeout but whereas set timeout finishes after three seconds, set interval
fires every two seconds, one second, whatever we set up.
So this allows us to then kind of, we can come up with an idea how we could switch these classes and there
might also be more than one way to do that
to be honest.
So this is the first exercise we'll do,
the second exercise then wants you to create a couple of css classes on your own, so be creative,
create whatever you want and attach them to this div here then
via the array syntax, that's important,
so use this array syntax you learned about to attach your css classes here.
Also feel free to mix the different styles of using a property which refers to a class name and maybe
a property which refers to an object where we have the key as a class name and the value which is true
or false which well decides whether this class should be attached.
The third exercise lets the user enter a class,
so you should also create them still so that they are available
but then we want to use this input to, well attach this class. So come up with an idea of how you might
do that, to listen to the user input and then attach the respective class to this div. In the fourth
example, we will still let the user enter class
and I also want to let the user enter
true or false for another class
so that we maybe use this array syntax or the first element might be the class the user enters
and the second one might be a class set up by you
where the user is then only able to switch between true or false,
so that is the next exercise. Here at
number five, I want to repeat the exercise from number three but now with the values for styles instead
of class names,
so the user is still able to enter something here but the something is no longer a class name of a class
you created
but the value of a style you predefined, for example you could just add background color to this div
and let the user set this background color style,
also feel free with playing around with different ways of adding this style to this div
And on exercise number 6,
I want to create a simple progress bar with set interval which fires let's say every half a second
and then the style bindings to increase the width of our progress bar.
We don't have to make that too complicated
but yeah, let's let's try to implement a basic bar here.
These are the exercises, in the next video, I'm going through
possible solutions so that you can compare your solutions to mine and see if you got stuck anywhere
or if you get up with another idea which obviously can work just fine too.
So I'll see you there.